# Where do We Go From Here?
I hope this introduction has set the ground and created some (hopefully positive!) expectation on what we are going to learn in the course. We should now briefly touch on how we are going to do it within this course.

## Philosophy of the Course
Data analysis is a complex process involving different theoretical concepts with roots in well established theoretical fields such as that of statistics. While it is **fundamental** to understand the theoretical premises and assumptions, we will opt for a formal, but practical introduction of these concepts. This means that we will introduce and describe models, but we will not delve too deeply into the mechanics of optimization of the models or demonstration of theoretical guarantees. At the same time, while we will rely on libraries to use the models and techniques introduced in the course, we will aim to forming a deep and formal understanding of how a given algorithm works. This is fundamental to understand **when a given tool should be used and when it should not be used**.

## Practical Data Analysis with Python
Since data analysis is a practical process, we will also rely on laboratories to introduce, understand and play with models, algorithms and concepts whenever appropriate. We will use the Python programming language and different Python libraries explicitly designed to perform data analyses. Another popular choice for data analysis is the R software. Both options (Python and R) are valid but the two packages follow different approaches:

* R has been introduced as a statistical language for non-technical people. Hence the focus was on the ease of use and attention on the process rather than on the programming side of the language itself. While R is probably the best supported language for statistical and data analysis (with a lot of great libraries explicitly designed for that), the language may appear not very flexible to people with a programming background.
* Python has been introduced as a general purpose programming language and became popular as a software for scientific computation and data analysis. Since it is a general purpose programming language, is is very flexible, even supporting multiple programming paradigms such as procedural, object oriented, and functional. The downside is that the language has not been explicitly designed for data analysis, so those functionalities are offered by external libraries which address specific data analysis aspects and are not always super-coherent with respect to their APIs and general approach.

That said, both solutions allow to achieve the same results. In this course we opt for Python as it will probably feel more natural to computer science course. Moreover, while Machine Learning is outside the scope of this course, Python is the main language for Machine Learning, so learning it will prove very useful for students who wish to take Machine Learning courses in the future.

## A Map of the Course
I hope this introductory lecture has sparked some interest on the fascinating topic of data analysis. While data analysis is a practical field, a data analyst is still required to have some solid formal understanding on how and why the algorithms and models used for data analysis work. This will also be useful to develop an intuition of what may go wrong in a data analysis, which, as the examples above have shown, is an important ability to gain.

We plan to address the different topics of the course by following the different kinds of data analysis that can be made. Hence, the course will develop through the following macro-units:

* **Descriptive and exploratory analysis**. We put both analyses types in the same unit as the tools for these two kinds of analysis are sometimes shared, even if their objectives are distinct. 
* **Inferential analysis**. We will see what are the main tools to make sure that any conclusion we are drawing on the data will likely apply beyond the data that we are analyzing.
* **Causal analysis**. We will just give an introduction here. The topic is broad and an entire course could be devoted to it. Here we aim to identify the main pitfalls so that we can be aware of which mistakes we can incur in without a proper data analysis. We will also see some simple approaches which may be sufficient in some cases to perform a proper causal analysis.
* **Predictive analysis**. We will discuss the philosophy of the approach, which is rather different from the different kinds of analysis seen above, revisit some of the algorithms discussed in the previous sections according to the predictive paradigm and see some powerful predictive algorithms which can be applied for data analysis. While this is not a machine learning course, this part will provide initial tools and lay the grounds for an in-depth understanding of what machine learning (including deep learning) is.
* **Time series analysis**. We will provide an introduction to the analysis of time series, highlighting the main concepts and techniques.

During our journey, we will both focus on theoretical concepts and apply them in practice in real examples of data analyses. This will be done through frequent short laboratory sessions (in the order of one per lecture) showing how to use the introduced concepts in practice, and lectures dedicated to the applications of the discussed concepts in real data analyses.
